README.MD, before:

# Video Processing with Matting and Chroma Key Replacement

This project allows you to process videos using a matting technique (from the Robust Video Matting model) and apply chroma key replacement to specific regions of the video. The chroma key effect supports dynamic zooming during the video playback, controlled via parameters.

## Table of Contents
[Features](#Features) \
[Installation](#Installation)\
[Minimum Requirements](#Minimum-Requirements)\
[Usage](#Usage)\
[Arguments](#Arguments)\
[Example](#Example)\
[Replace Color](#Replace-color)\
[Notes](#Notes)

## Features

- [Robust Video Matting](https://github.com/PeterL1n/RobustVideoMatting): Automatically segments and extracts objects from videos (such as people) based on the selected matting model.
- Chroma Key Replacement: Replaces the green/blue screen regions of a video with a background video or image.
- Dynamic Zooming: The script allows dynamic zoom effects during playback, with customizable zoom settings.
- Automatic Mask Creation: Converts videos into a sequence of PNG images with alpha transparency for further editing or compositing.

## Installation

- Install dependencies:
    ```bash
        pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

- Download the model weights for the Robust Video Matting model:
    You can download [rvm_resnet50.pth or rvm_mobilenetv3.pth](https://github.com/PeterL1n/RobustVideoMatting?tab=readme-ov-file#download) from the [official Robust Video Matting repository](https://github.com/PeterL1n/RobustVideoMatting).
    Place the downloaded .pth model in the root directory of the project, or specify its path in the command line arguments.

- Install [pytorch](https://pytorch.org/) (Recommendation: 2.4.1+cu118)

## Minimum Requirements

- Python: 3.6 or higher.
- CUDA: 10.1 or higher (if using a GPU).
- PyTorch: 1.7 or later (Recommendation: 2.4.1+cu118).
- FFmpeg: Must be installed for handling video inputs and outputs.
- GPU: An NVIDIA GPU is recommended for optimal performance, although CPU usage is possible.

Recommendation: **PyTorch:** 2.4.1, **CUDA:** 11.8.

## Usage

### To run the script, use the following minimal command format:

```bash
python pipeline.py --original_video <path_to_original_video> \
                   --full_background <path_to_full_background_video> \
                   --phone_background <path_to_phone_background_video> \
                   --model_path <path_to_model> 
```
If you use the mobilenetv3 model, don't forget to specify the robust_model parameter

```bash
python pipeline.py --original_video <path_to_original_video> \
                   --full_background <path_to_full_background_video> \
                   --phone_background <path_to_phone_background_video> \
                   --model_path <path_to_model> \
                   --robust_model <model_type>
```

## Arguments
```text
    --original_video: (Required) Path to the original video file that you want to process.
    --full_background: (Required) Path to the full background video that will replace the chroma-keyed regions of the original video.
    --phone_background: (Required) Path to the phone background video that will replace the chroma-keyed regions.
    --model_path: (Required) Path to the Robust Video Matting model file.
    --zoom_scale: (Optional) Initial zoom scale for the chroma key effect. Default: 0.2.
    --zoom_increment: (Optional) Zoom increment applied per frame for the dynamic zoom effect. Default: 1.
    --output_video_name: (Optional) Name of the output video file (without extension). Default: output_video.
    --lower_blue: (Optional) Lower HSV range for blue color used in chroma key processing, provided as three integers. Default: [80, 50, 80].
    --upper_blue: (Optional) Upper HSV range for blue color used in chroma key processing, provided as three integers. Default: [130, 255, 255].
    --lower_green: (Optional) Lower HSV range for green color used in chroma key processing, provided as three integers. Default: [35, 40, 40].
    --upper_green: (Optional) Upper HSV range for green color used in chroma key processing, provided as three integers. Default: [85, 255, 255].
    --robust_output_type: (Optional) Output type for the Robust Video Matting process (e.g., 'png' for image sequence, 'video' for full video). Default: png.
    --robust_model: (Required if the mobilenetv3 model is used) The type of Robust Video Matting model to use. Choices: resnet50 or mobilenetv3. Default: resnet50.
    --replace_output_video: (Optional) Path to the video output after color replacement is applied.
    --output_composition: (Optional) Path to the AI-processed final video composition.
    --processing_model: (Optional) Model for file processing. Options: 'cpu' or 'gpu' (cuda). Default: cpu.
    --output_dir: (Optional) A custom path to save the results. (Default in the project directory is the results folder).
    --start_phone_video (Optional): Whether to start the phone's background movie immediately after the screen appears in the frame. Default: false
    --no_resize: (Optional) Comma-separated list of videos that should not be resized. Acceptable values: 'phone', 'background', or both. For example:
                  --no_resize phone (do not resize phone background),
                  --no_resize background (do not resize full background),
                  --no_resize phone,background (do not resize both videos). Default: none (all videos will be resized).
```
    
### Description of Chroma Keying and Zoom Parameters:
```text
    Zoom Scale: This controls the initial zoom level on the phone screen’s background. A value of 1.0 means no zoom, while higher values will zoom in.
    Zoom Increment: This controls how fast the zoom increases during the video. A higher increment will result in faster zooming.
```

## Example

### To process a video called input.mp4, apply a background from full_bg.mp4:

```bash
python pipeline.py --original_video input.mp4 \
                   --full_background full_bg.mp4 \
                   --phone_background phone_bg.mp4 \
                   --model_path rvm_resnet50.pth 
```
### Example workflow:

***Step 1:*** For each video that is being processed for the first time, the [replace_color](#Replace-color) script is run first.\
***Step 2:*** Next, the script removes the chroma key color (green or blue) from the original video and replaces it with transparent layers.\
***Step 3:*** Using the selected background video, the chromakey effect is applied to the transparent areas.\
***Step 4:*** Zoom is dynamically applied to the phone screen, creating a zoom effect during video playback.

| **Before**                    |          **After**           |
|-------------------------------|:----------------------------:|
| ![](README_ASSETS/before.gif) | ![](README_ASSETS/after.gif) |

## Replace color

This script finds dots of a different color on the background and paints them in the background color. \
The result will be a video with the replaced color in the background and named output_name_replace_color.mp4

| **Before replace**            |          **After replace**         |
|-------------------------------|:----------------------------------:|
| ![](README_ASSETS/before.gif) |![](README_ASSETS/after_replace.gif)|

## Notes

The sequence/ folder will contain PNG files (with alpha channels) of each processed frame after applying the matting model.\
The finished video will have the default name output_video.mp4 and will be saved in the current directory.\
The default matting model is rvm_resnet50.pth, but you can also use the smaller rvm_mobilenetv3.pth model for faster processing if needed.

Feel free to adjust the zoom parameters as per your creative requirements to achieve the desired effect.

Commit message:

add music arg. upd requirements.txt

README.MD, after:

# Video Processing with Matting and Chroma Key Replacement

This project allows you to process videos using a matting technique (from the Robust Video Matting model) and apply chroma key replacement to specific regions of the video. The chroma key effect supports dynamic zooming during the video playback, controlled via parameters.

## Table of Contents
[Features](#Features) \
[Installation](#Installation)\
[Minimum Requirements](#Minimum-Requirements)\
[Usage](#Usage)\
[Arguments](#Arguments)\
[Example](#Example)\
[Replace Color](#Replace-color)\
[Notes](#Notes)

## Features

- [Robust Video Matting](https://github.com/PeterL1n/RobustVideoMatting): Automatically segments and extracts objects from videos (such as people) based on the selected matting model.
- Chroma Key Replacement: Replaces the green/blue screen regions of a video with a background video or image.
- Dynamic Zooming: The script allows dynamic zoom effects during playback, with customizable zoom settings.
- Automatic Mask Creation: Converts videos into a sequence of PNG images with alpha transparency for further editing or compositing.

## Installation

- Install dependencies:
    ```bash
        pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

- Download the model weights for the Robust Video Matting model:
    You can download [rvm_resnet50.pth or rvm_mobilenetv3.pth](https://github.com/PeterL1n/RobustVideoMatting?tab=readme-ov-file#download) from the [official Robust Video Matting repository](https://github.com/PeterL1n/RobustVideoMatting).
    Place the downloaded .pth model in the root directory of the project, or specify its path in the command line arguments.

- Install [pytorch](https://pytorch.org/) (Recommendation: 2.4.1+cu118)

## Minimum Requirements

- Python: 3.6 or higher.
- CUDA: 10.1 or higher (if using a GPU).
- PyTorch: 1.7 or later (Recommendation: 2.4.1+cu118).
- FFmpeg: Must be installed for handling video inputs and outputs.
- GPU: An NVIDIA GPU is recommended for optimal performance, although CPU usage is possible.

Recommendation: **PyTorch:** 2.4.1, **CUDA:** 11.8.

## Usage

### To run the script, use the following minimal command format:

```bash
python pipeline.py --original_video <path_to_original_video> \
                   --full_background <path_to_full_background_video> \
                   --phone_background <path_to_phone_background_video> \
                   --model_path <path_to_model> 
```
If you use the mobilenetv3 model, don't forget to specify the robust_model parameter

```bash
python pipeline.py --original_video <path_to_original_video> \
                   --full_background <path_to_full_background_video> \
                   --phone_background <path_to_phone_background_video> \
                   --model_path <path_to_model> \
                   --robust_model <model_type>
```

## Arguments
```text
    --original_video: (Required) Path to the original video file that you want to process.
    --full_background: (Required) Path to the full background video that will replace the chroma-keyed regions of the original video.
    --phone_background: (Required) Path to the phone background video that will replace the chroma-keyed regions.
    --model_path: (Required) Path to the Robust Video Matting model file.
    --zoom_scale: (Optional) Initial zoom scale for the chroma key effect. Default: 0.2.
    --zoom_increment: (Optional) Zoom increment applied per frame for the dynamic zoom effect. Default: 1.
    --output_video_name: (Optional) Name of the output video file (without extension). Default: output_video.
    --lower_blue: (Optional) Lower HSV range for blue color used in chroma key processing, provided as three integers. Default: [80, 50, 80].
    --upper_blue: (Optional) Upper HSV range for blue color used in chroma key processing, provided as three integers. Default: [130, 255, 255].
    --lower_green: (Optional) Lower HSV range for green color used in chroma key processing, provided as three integers. Default: [35, 40, 40].
    --upper_green: (Optional) Upper HSV range for green color used in chroma key processing, provided as three integers. Default: [85, 255, 255].
    --robust_output_type: (Optional) Output type for the Robust Video Matting process (e.g., 'png' for image sequence, 'video' for full video). Default: png.
    --robust_model: (Required if the mobilenetv3 model is used) The type of Robust Video Matting model to use. Choices: resnet50 or mobilenetv3. Default: resnet50.
    --replace_output_video: (Optional) Path to the video output after color replacement is applied.
    --output_composition: (Optional) Path to the AI-processed final video composition.
    --processing_model: (Optional) Model for file processing. Options: 'cpu' or 'gpu' (cuda). Default: cpu.
    --output_dir: (Optional) A custom path to save the results. (Default in the project directory is the results folder).
    --start_phone_video (Optional): Whether to start the phone's background movie immediately after the screen appears in the frame. Default: false
    --no_resize: (Optional) Comma-separated list of videos that should not be resized. Acceptable values: 'phone', 'background', or both. For example:
                  --no_resize phone (do not resize phone background),
                  --no_resize background (do not resize full background),
                  --no_resize phone,background (do not resize both videos). Default: none (all videos will be resized).
    --music_path: (Optional) Path to the main music file that will be overlaid on the video. Default: none.
```
    
### Description of Chroma Keying and Zoom Parameters:
```text
    Zoom Scale: This controls the initial zoom level on the phone screen’s background. A value of 1.0 means no zoom, while higher values will zoom in.
    Zoom Increment: This controls how fast the zoom increases during the video. A higher increment will result in faster zooming.
```

## Example

### To process a video called input.mp4, apply a background from full_bg.mp4:

```bash
python pipeline.py --original_video input.mp4 \
                   --full_background full_bg.mp4 \
                   --phone_background phone_bg.mp4 \
                   --model_path rvm_resnet50.pth 
```
### Example workflow:

***Step 1:*** For each video that is being processed for the first time, the [replace_color](#Replace-color) script is run first.\
***Step 2:*** Next, the script removes the chroma key color (green or blue) from the original video and replaces it with transparent layers.\
***Step 3:*** Using the selected background video, the chromakey effect is applied to the transparent areas.\
***Step 4:*** Zoom is dynamically applied to the phone screen, creating a zoom effect during video playback.

| **Before**                    |          **After**           |
|-------------------------------|:----------------------------:|
| ![](README_ASSETS/before.gif) | ![](README_ASSETS/after.gif) |

## Replace color

This script finds dots of a different color on the background and paints them in the background color. \
The result will be a video with the replaced color in the background and named output_name_replace_color.mp4

| **Before replace**            |          **After replace**         |
|-------------------------------|:----------------------------------:|
| ![](README_ASSETS/before.gif) |![](README_ASSETS/after_replace.gif)|

## Notes

The sequence/ folder will contain PNG files (with alpha channels) of each processed frame after applying the matting model.\
The finished video will have the default name output_video.mp4 and will be saved in the current directory.\
The default matting model is rvm_resnet50.pth, but you can also use the smaller rvm_mobilenetv3.pth model for faster processing if needed.

Feel free to adjust the zoom parameters as per your creative requirements to achieve the desired effect.
